hey big hello from raleigh north
carolina i have a special guest today
for b2b marketing and more
aj wilcox and he is a linkedin
ads expert
i heard about his interview
with mike stelzner on social media
examiner channel the youtube channel and
i found him fascinating and
direct and honest i really love a lot of
responses and answers that he provided
during that interview so here i am
inviting him as a part of my guest
welcome aj
pam i'm so excited to be here thanks so
much you know actually i have done like
over 200 episodes of b2b marketing a
majority of stuff i talk about tend to
be organic
and also b2b process the main generation
very boring topics whatever
[Music]
[Laughter]
not boring at all those are my favorite
things
saddest part is me too
and those are like boring topics and
when i talk about b2b marketing to
anybody else about
really pam can we talk about something
else yeah it's my favorite topic as well
so linkedin pay ads
you know what
if i'm not mistaken linkedin pay ads are
pretty expensive is it working i think
you called it out right if anyone has
ever tried to advertise on linkedin the
very first reaction is oh my gosh this
looks so expensive oh my god
yeah it's terrible the average cost per
click that we see with our clients is
eight to thirteen dollars per click and
of course you look at it and say that's
really expensive yeah and then of course
you look at it and say well i'm only
paying
two to four dollars per click on
facebook two cents for the facebook ads
you know or like a bug for the twitter
ad yeah
yeah it's very very different but what
is so neat about linkedin ads the reason
why they do still work the reason why
costs continue to rise some people are
paying 20 30 40 per click and still
having a return on their investment the
whole reason why is because linkedin
gives us this ability to target people
by who they are we can target their
exact job titles and industry and
company size we can target them by
specific company names their level of
seniority their location and everything
i've mentioned is probably only about a
sixth of all of the targeting options
that we have so if you look at it with
linkedin you can make sure that every
single one of your clicks and every one
of your leads comes from an ideal
prospect whereas on facebook your sales
team is going to come back and say hey
we had to disqualify 95 of your leads oh
but that 5 was pretty good keep it up
giving that is very expensive cost per
click and just like you said it ranges
pretty widely from like seven or eight
dollars even as high as the forty and
fifty dollars
if this is something that small
businesses can really afford or even
besides company and if they want to do
it very sustainable type of manner you
know pay ads is really a long play and i
always tell my client if you decide to
do pay you have to do it for
at least 12 to 18 months right it's not
something you should stop and then do it
stop and do it it's not like a paid
campaign so you have to do it for a long
period of time so how much budget
does a company need this is something
that small business can afford so short
answer is yes we've worked with many
very small companies we've also worked
with many of the largest the fortune 500
and everything in between what we found
the limiting factor for companies is
budget no kidding yeah
duh but it's really important on any
channel to make sure that you generate
enough data that you can tell whether or
not something's working and if you go in
and just spend the very minimum that you
can on linkedin which is ten dollars a
day don't bother don't bother
300 in a month that'll give you a
handful of clicks you will not be any
closer to finding out if it's a channel
that works so what i recommend is if
you're gonna approach linkedin ads don't
do it with less than about a five
thousand dollar per month budget got it
i like that just make sure that you are
set to spend five thousand dollars
before you shut it off so if your budget
is only like fifteen hundred dollars a
month
great just make sure you are running it
for at least three months before you
make the decision to cut it or increase
this is great i love that so basically
minimal five thousand dollars a month
and if not rent
like five thousand dollars before you
stop yes
that's great advice a lot of time i know
the
when i talk to anybody who's managed the
pay media part of it they are very
hesitant to provide budget information
and i always looking for like hey you
know what is it possible to provide some
sort of budget guidance because pay is
really really dictated by number the
budget that you have and you bought a
very good point number one thing is you
run five thousand dollars as long as you
can the other question i want to ask
which is kind of on top of that as well
if you do have five thousand dollars how
long should you run of course you're
going to say as long as possible but
minimal level for me advertising is is
very much a linear process you're going
to spend money and you're going to get
impressions and then those impressions
are going to turn into clicks and then a
certain percentage of those clicks will
turn into conversions and and then a
certain number of those conversions can
become sales qualified or marketing
qualified leads a certain percentage of
i mean i'm preaching to the choir here
but for me it depends on what level of
confidence that you want if you just
want to find out like what is my cost
per lead from this channel going to be
yeah you could spend for two three
months and go oh looks like my cost per
lead is eighty dollars okay i got some
baseline yeah
yeah exactly but if your goal is to find
out what is my roi from linkedin ads
like yeah you're gonna have to look at
how long is my sales cycle and how long
does it take us to nurture these leads
to close and maybe you're gonna be in
this for two three four years before you
have statistical significance around
that data so it really is up to you but
i would say
if you are running against facebook ads
hands down facebook ads is always going
to be a lower cost per lead because the
cost per click was cheaper but when you
follow that into your crm you look
further down the sales cycle you're
gonna find that wow because linkedin's
targeting was so good at getting the
right people even though we're paying
more for it by the time you're looking
at your cost per sales qualified lead or
your cost per proposal sent or your cost
per closed deal all of a sudden linkedin
looks really good compared to facebook
but so many people were scared off by it
because of the initial high costs that
they never gave it a real chance you
know i'm very very happy you brought up
one key points when i ask you in terms
of like how long should we run kind of
like a pay media for a specific channel
and you mentioned one thing i love it so
much it's well depending on your
purchase cycle right if it takes like
eight to 12 months to actually convert a
lead b2b marketing tends to be
longer purchasing cycle chances are you
need to run that purchasing cycle to get
a sense to get a statistically sample
data to see if that actually do the
conversion i loved that when you brought
that as a part of the conversation
fantastic well said aj
well it was so funny that it's it's been
a year or so ago but we actually had a
client who left after three months and
we asked why are you quitting why did
you decide to stop advertising on
linkedin and he said well we haven't
closed the deal yet and we were like but
it's only been three months and your
sales cycle is nine months and and it
just was a giant face palm they didn't
get it which is fine every client's a
little bit different majority of the
marketers especially in the b2b side
there are two things i have noticed one
is some of them they have this the
instant gratification
mentality you know i spend and i do the
pay ass i need to get the results right
away and but that's not the reality and
then second thing is a lot of marketers
are also under pressure from their
management so the management finally
approve a set of budget for them to do
pay ads and the management also have
this expectation hey here's the fifty
thousand dollars what you spend fifty
thousand dollars in three months we have
not even closed a deal it must not be
working
but they are not looking from the
perspective their sales people can take
nine months to close the deal but when
they spend that money only for three
months they were like oh my god we
failed miserably
so i understand where you're coming from
and there's one thing i always tell my
clients is like you need to set
expectations especially realistic
expectations with your sales people also
with your management when you run pay
media ads and a good chunk of it is
actually building awareness not
necessarily driving the conversion so
true honestly it's very very hard to
kind of set the expectations with the
management because like i said that
instant gratification is so important to
them i'm writing in the ads i don't
understand
why am i not getting the deal
yeah i think there's a good reason for
this kind of an attitude as well because
i would say most marketers 10 years ago
kind of grew up in
google ads and in in seo
which was all focused around keywords so
when someone comes to find you they've
told you exactly what it is they're
looking for and you can just give it to
them but then when social ads came on
the scene like with facebook and with
linkedin we're showing ads to people not
based off of what they're currently
looking for but
whether they're the right kind of person
we are hoping they are looking for that
exactly but we know every time we
compare channels we see that google ads
always closes deals the fastest it's the
fastest funnel acceleration that's a
fair assessment that's definitely a fair
assessment the nice thing about linkedin
though is that because we're targeting
exactly the right people linkedin always
closes the largest deal sizes and the
the highest profile companies so
it depends on what you need if you need
speed yeah google ads is where you want
to start but if you want your biggest
most significant deals linkedin ads is
by far in a way though the one
yeah but it's a long play right it takes
a long time to get that big fish so can
you talk to us about the different ad
options and the format that linkedin
offers
i know that of course banner ad is one
option what else
yeah so linkedin has four total options
and
to be able to see all of them you need
to be on your desktop not on the mobile
app really so do they do a lot of mobile
ads
half
show up only on mobile that's what i'm
trying to go for
and the other half can show up on on all
okay the first one this is the first ad
format linkedin came out with it's
called text ads and it's only on desktop
it's in the right rail and if you look
as you're just surfing around
linkedin.com you'll see it's usually a
two pack of ads sometimes or sorry it's
usually a three pack sometimes it's two
where you'll see two or three ads all
kind of stacked within a little box
and these are one of my favorite ad
formats yeah they're great they are the
cheapest ads that you can run you can
pay all the way down to two dollars per
click and
actually get traffic but because they're
over in the right rail only on desktop
it's kind of hard to spend a whole
budget
the next one
this is actually my absolute favorite is
called sponsored content
and these are the ones that show up in
your news feed
there are several different variants one
is like just the single image ad that's
actually my favorite to start with but
they have a video ad version they also
have a carousel ad version where you can
see multiple tiles that you can yeah
yeah like a tile things yes
yes
let me ask one more question sorry to
interrupt for this second option which
is the video ad do you actually have
recommended length for that ad should
that be like five seconds or 30 seconds
do you have any recommendation for that
so short answer is try to keep your
video creative short i would say like
instagram short try to keep things under
15 seconds if you can
if your goal is to get people to
initiate themselves down a funnel then
we like doing eight second videos
because as soon as someone watches two
seconds of it which it counts as a view
on linkedin you can also retarget them
to say oh if they've watched 25 of this
eight second video then show them the
next ad in the sequence one more time
yeah retargeting yes
the third option is called dynamic ads
and these are again only on desktop
because they're in the right rail they
take the same inventory up that same
like 300 by 250 block that text ads do
but every once in a while they take away
the text ads and they put one of these
dynamic ads and i call these linkedin's
creepiest ad format because you may have
seen this they take your profile picture
and stick it into the ad and that's why
they call it dynamic yes i noticed that
especially for recruitment they they put
my picture next to like a company's logo
and say hey you know what this is like
really a perfect match i was like
seriously no i don't think so is an
entrepreneur really a perfect match for
any company okay well
we'll see
and then the fourth option they call
sponsored messaging and these are where
you can pay per person that you send to
and it's a message that arrives in their
inbox one version is kind of like an
email and the other version is called a
conversation ad where you can give
people options and based off of what
they click you can then give them more
options so it's kind of like those old
choose your own adventure this is an
email but it's a paid email is that
correct exactly yep totally so let me
ask you a question for this is like a
paid email and they will say oh yeah hey
pam you know what we have this master
class would love to actually have you
and
what if i respond say no thank you
does that mean something does that mean
that they can send out another email or
does that mean that okay they will not
target me the next time oh good question
okay so if you ever get an inmail that
allows you to say no i'm not interested
or no thank you yeah that is an inmail
that came from recruiter or sales
navigator not from the ads
side of the business oh
never mind i gotta confuse thank you for
correcting me and clarifying that what's
so cool about it is if you say no thank
you or not interested you are taken off
of that person's list they can't contact
you again
which is kind of good if they're being
spammy it's it's nice that's great that
means like you know what i'm not
interested please don't talk to me again
i'm not your lead anyway so yeah exactly
what type of mistakes usually people
make when they run ads on their own
i have so many good ones i can share the
first one is if you go in to start your
first campaign and you you click create
campaign there's a whole bunch of
options that linkedin has set for you
that are not in your favor
the first one is as you're defining who
your audience is there will be a little
check box that says
enable audience expansion and linkedin
always turns it on for you but let's be
honest if you're paying a premium for
linkedin traffic which you are
you want to be very focused
and targeted you give linkedin cart
blanche saying oh stick whoever you want
into this audience for me it's like no
if you're paying 8 to 13 a click you
just be ultra specific about who you
want to show your ads to i love that
that's a great great feedback i love
that what about the second mistake
second mistake is
if you keep scrolling down the ad you
get to the bidding and budgeting section
basically how you're paying for this
traffic and linkedin actually makes it
really hard to to select the bidding
option that's most in your favor the one
that they have selected is called
maximum delivery
when you hear maximum delivery you're
probably hearing
i'm going to like
like dump as much of this on someone as
i can
that is actually the linkedin's most
expensive way to pay for traffic about
90 of the time so you have to click the
little like show more options and then
they show you manual bidding manual cost
per click bidding is the best way for
you as a marketer to have insurance to
hedge your bets because you get to say i
am not willing to pay more than seven
dollars per click or i'm not willing to
pay more than 15 per click and linkedin
has to honor that it's a good way to
start out and if you find that your ads
are performing really well sure you can
turn on maximum delivery if you want but
you're probably gonna pay significantly
less by doing manual don't do that when
you just starting exactly i love those
devices those are wonderful give us one
more
the other one is
most people and this is actually really
really important most people when they
go onto onto linkedin ads especially if
they've already been advertising on
google they're like oh i'm just going to
push people right to demo i'm going to
show an ad that says click here to talk
to our high pressure sales rep or you
know you know click here for a trial or
a demo what they're missing is the fact
that people on linkedin are on their way
to do something they're busy they're not
there to be entertained
and most of the time they're they're
curious so if you can show them
something that is of real interest to
them of real value that's how you can
earn their attention so starting out
with a lead magnet like here's a free
guide or a free checklist or an ebook or
join this free webinar as long as the
content is good and people are actually
interested when you gate that people
will
submit and become leads and then your
sales team can follow up with them to
talk about demos but if you start out
just going right for demo
you'll lose people they won't even click
yeah you just say something that is
eye-opener for me in general when i
write email marketing
a dimension um copy if you will
and a lot of time i really want to gauge
people's interests
and the call to action on the email
specifically a lot of time i would say
you know contact sales if you are
interested or request for demo i guess
for email marketing and depending on how
you write your copy that might be a very
good ending
and also is a very strong call to action
and i probably will apply that to the
pay media type of effort as well but now
you just basically said pam don't do
that if you actually run linkedin ad you
know based on your experience of doing
so many ads with so many brands
right use content as a hook
get them interested and then you can
take on the next step i like that
totally oh i love something today yay
yeah and it's all about warm and cold
audiences it's all about taking someone
who
is familiar with you
and then asking them to take the next
step it's kind of like we've we've heard
the analogy it's like proposing marriage
on the first date if the first time
someone ever saw your ad you're saying
talk to our sales rep
seriously are you saying we should not
do that
yeah exactly
but hey if this is a warm audience a
retargeting audience that you've already
stayed in front of and you're running
linkedin ads to them sure push them
right to demo it's just you have to earn
their attention before they're ever
going to considering like pop it in
earn the a trust first yeah exactly oh
couldn't have said it better oh
love it
all right so
anything else that you want to share
with us i do have a good one here
something that linkedin does better than
any other ad platform is it gives you
this audience segmentation that i would
call almost market research-esque where
here's an example
it'd be really easy for me if i wanted
to target marketing decision makers i
could say
target all marketing job function
with any seniority that's manager or
above and i could have one campaign put
a couple ads in there and serve to that
audience and then you run another
campaign yeah when i get the results
back from this i won't learn anything
like there's a lot of different people
there's
manager level people there's director
level there's cmos in this audience and
i can't tell who liked it and who didn't
so just like you're alluding to if i
instead do four different campaigns one
is just marketing managers another
marketing directors the other one
marketing vps and then one just for cmos
i can still run the same two ads to all
of them but now what i get is this very
focused data back of like oh cmos like
this content or they're they click cheap
but the sales team's having a hard time
getting a hold of them so we end up
getting a lower conversion to sales
qualified lead or insights like that
that you literally can't get anywhere
else so use it to learn more about your
audience i think it's brilliant
i love that so you are basically saying
let me paraphrase really quickly you are
saying that when you run the pay ads and
depending on the platform but for
linkedin specifically when you run the
pay ads and try to actually be very
targeted in terms of your audience
and break it down to a very specific job
title for example or you can do it by
specific region if you want to
but do a very specific job title and run
four or five ads and see which one
actually drive the most conversion and
when you pass that lease to your sales
team you can get a feedback from them
which ones actually convert i'd like
that a lot yeah
yeah use that as a marketing research
yeah and with any other channel you
can't do this like facebook your
targeting is going to be so broad you
can't tell who is like which job titles
uh which industries are interacting but
on linkedin you can create these we call
them micro segments little micro
segments of every different variation of
your audience that you want and then
based off of how they click how they
cost how they convert now you're
learning who actually is my ideal
audience it's amazing for persona
research and like nailing down who your
ideal profile is if they decide to do it
themselves or they try to get some
knowledge out of it do you offer any
free courses or any paid courses that
you can share i have some really good
resources anyone who wants to learn
about linkedin ads
first off
check out my podcast it's called the
linkedin ads show
pam will put a link down in the show
notes below or whatever well i will
definitely do that and if you just type
linkedin ads
into your your podcast tool you'll see
the show it's probably the only one
the the next is whenever i try a new ad
channel i'm always surprised by how much
it takes to get started like how much
work it is to set up a new ad account
and get advertising so what we did is we
created what we call the linkedin ad
startup checklist it's the eight things
that you need in order to start
advertising today we created it because
it's exactly what i wanted when i first
started advertising and no one gave it
to me so we give it out for free if you
go to b2linked.com
checklist you can download for free the
same guide i'm going to put that as a
part of the show note yeah
so linkedin owns linkedin learning
obviously they selected me as the author
for their course on linkedin learning oh
really that's fantastic you know what i
actually created a course for linkedin
they invited me to create
a marketing plan course and i got that
done i finished all the recording a
couple weeks ago and my course will be
launched on june 22nd yes we're both
authors oh that's so cool
but i'll put the link down in the show
notes here on this one as well but it's
the course on linkedin learning for
linkedin ads it's only an hour and a
half long i think it costs like 20 or
it's free if you've got the whole
subscription obviously but it's by far
the highest quality
course for linkedin ads that there is
out there and it's also the cheapest
when we eventually come out with our own
courses they're going to cost
significantly more than linkedin
learning i'm going to put a link below
so you can check that out aj thank you
so much for coming to my show you've
been awesome and sharing such a
insightful knowledge and also the tricks
and tips and the best practices so i'm
gonna end it with another question so
what show are you binge watching right
now most excited about right now is
called girls5eva and i think it's on
peacock but it's it was written by tina
fey it's really funny
excellent aj thank you so much for
coming to my show and share a lot of
your tips and the lesson learned really
really grateful to have you
oh it was my honor to be here have me
back anytime if you want a round two or
an update sometime
we'll do take care
bye bye
bye-bye
[Music]
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]